# Usage statistics AGMB 2023
Background information for a poster presented at [AGMB 2023](https://agmb.de/de_DE/2023-bonn-startseite): "Bestandsnutzung an der neuen Universitätsmedizin Augsburg: Erste Einblicke".

Except for the jupyter notebooks: All the files the code reads must be in the same folder as the code.


### Information on the code for plotting 'Bestandsliste 172':
#### prepare_172_excel_file.py:
This code edits a file that contains stock information on books (generated by the library management system Sisis-SunRise) with a pressmark starting with 172. 
The data is grouped by 'ISBN' and some columns are removed.
The new file contains the following columns: 
- Signatur
- ISBN
- Titel
- Titelzusatz
- Beilagen
- Verfasser / Urheber	
- Verlag	
- Ort	
- Jahr
- Ausleihzähler gesamt	
- Ausleihzähler lf. Jahr
- Ausleihzähler Vorjahr
- Ausleihzähler Vorvorjahr	
- Ausleihzähler aller Jahre vor Vorvorjahr

    
#### plot_172_for_poster.py:
This code contains multiple functions that can be used to plot the data from the previously updated file (prepare_172_excel_file):
First the code reads the updated file and sorts it based on the usage per year (the order for each year is saved separately and can be used as input for the functions).
##### The functions for plotting:
- plot_top_of_year plots the most used books of a certain year as horizontal bar plot.
- plot_top_10_2022_shorttitle is a very specific version of the function above. It's for plotting the top tens of 2022 with shorttitles instead of the book title 
(those shorttitles were manually added to the updated and soreted file). 
- plot_top_over_years creates a bar plot, that shows the percentage of the top books within of the books that are lend overall.
- plot_preclinic_over_years does the same as the function above just for preclinic books instead of the tops.


### Information on the code for plotting the e-book usage
#### prepare_springer.py:
This code creates a new file out of Springer COUNTER 5 TR_J1 reports.

### plot_e-book_for_poster.py:
This code offers two functions for plotting data from the updated e-book reports form Thieme eRef, Elsevier ClinicalKey Student and Springer German language packages Medicine.
The files generated by merge_with_report from prepare_springer.py serve as input for the Springer files. 
For the Thieme files we used some that were manually created and the input for Elsevier is their Counter4 Report.
#### The functions for plotting:
- publishers_per_year plots three boxplots, one for each publisher, in order to compare the publishers based on the data of one year.
- publisher_over_years plots three boxplots, one for each year, in order to compare data from one publisher over the years.
